---
title: "SNoRe: Scalable Unsupervised Learning of Symbolic Node Representations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-12-SNoRe
excerpt: 'This paper presents SNoRe, an unsupervised node embedding algorithm that achieves state-of-the-art performance and is interpretable.'
date: 20-11-2020
venue: 'IEEE Access'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9265235'
citation: 'S. Mežnar, N. Lavrač and B. Škrlj, "SNoRe: Scalable Unsupervised Learning of Symbolic Node Representations," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 212568-212588, 2020, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3039541.'
---
Co-authors: Nada Lavrač, Blaž Škrlj

Learning from complex real-life networks is a lively research area, with recent advances in learning information-rich, low-dimensional network node representations. However, state-of-the-art methods are not necessarily interpretable and are therefore not fully applicable to sensitive settings in biomedical or user profiling tasks, where explicit bias detection is highly relevant. The proposed SNoRe (Symbolic Node Representations) algorithm is capable of learning symbolic, human-understandable representations of individual network nodes, based on the similarity of neighborhood hashes which serve as features. SNoRe’s interpretable features are suitable for direct explanation of individual predictions, which we demonstrate by coupling it with the widely used instance explanation tool SHAP to obtain nomograms representing the relevance of individual features for a given classification. To our knowledge, this is one of the first such attempts in a structural node embedding setting. In the experimental evaluation on eleven real-life datasets, SNoRe proved to be competitive to strong baselines, such as variational graph autoencoders, node2vec and LINE. The vectorized implementation of SNoRe scales to large networks, making it suitable for contemporary network learning and analysis tasks.

[Full paper can be accessed here!](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9265235)

Recommended citation: S. Mežnar, N. Lavrač and B. Škrlj, "SNoRe: Scalable Unsupervised Learning of Symbolic Node Representations," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 212568-212588, 2020, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3039541.